README.md, before:

# reMarkbly-Random
Based on [https://pages.github.com/Neurone/reMarkable](https://github.com/Neurone/reMarkable)

Customizations for reMarkable and reMarkable 2 Paper Tablet.
Scripts tested and working on version `3.17.x`

> [!WARNING]
> This project is **NOT** affiliated with nor endorsed by reMarkable AS. If you modify your device official support might refuse to help you if something goes wrong. Use at your own risk.

## Automatically change your suspend screen every 5 minutes

After installing this script, every image in the `/home/root/customization/images/suspended` folder is indexed, put in a random order, and every 5 minutes the next image in order is made the current suspend screen. The names of the files are not relevant.

The suspend image is loaded only when the reMarkable goes to sleep and the timer seems to only run when the reMarkable is awake. Therefore, these images do not change either (a) while sleeping or (b) necessarily after every sleep/wake cycle. I tried to find a system "on sleep" or "on wake" hook to run the script on but wasn't able to so we're sticking with the "every five minutes" concept. Still working on triggering it every sleep/wake cycle.

If you change the contents of `/home/root/customization/images/suspended` the script will detect the change and reindex the images automatically.

Create your own images! They need to be 1404 x 1872 pngs and I used 229 ppi resolution. They don't have to be grayscale to work. I found the reMarkable logos here: `https://brandfetch.com/remarkable.com`

**NOTE:** This repo comes with some default images. I did my best to research them to ensure they were not copyrighted. If you find or are the creator, please send a PR to this repo and I will either credit you or delete the image as you desire.

### Manual installation

- Clone this repo:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:ahnyerkeester/reMarkably-Random.git reMarkable-customizations
```

- Get the IP address and password for your reMarkable: Menu bars in the top left corner -> Settings -> About -> Copyrights and licenses. These are displayed at the bottom of that box. Be aware that the IP may change periodically when connecting over WiFi, don't assume it will always be the same.

- Connect to your reMarkable via USB or wake it and ensure it connects to WiFi. Copy this repo into a temp folder (change the XXXs below to the reMarabkle's IP address):

```bash
scp -r reMarkable-customizations root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:/home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations
```

- Login into your reMarkable:

```bash
❯ ssh root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX
root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX′s password:
ｒｅＭａｒｋａｂｌｅ
╺━┓┏━╸┏━┓┏━┓   ┏━┓╻ ╻┏━╸┏━┓┏━┓
┏━┛┣╸ ┣┳┛┃ ┃   ┗━┓┃ ┃┃╺┓┣━┫┣┳┛
┗━╸┗━╸╹┗╸┗━┛   ┗━┛┗━┛┗━┛╹ ╹╹┗╸
reMarkable: ~/
```

- Create dedicated folders for your scripts and images:

```bash
mkdir -p /usr/share/remarkable/scripts
mkdir -p /home/root/customization/images/suspended
```

- Copy the script into the correct folder and make it executable:

```bash
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/scripts/random-screens/set-random-screens.sh /usr/share/remarkable/scripts/
chmod +x /usr/share/remarkable/scripts/set-random-screens.sh
```

- Copy some images into the folder:

```bash
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/images/suspended/* /home/root/customization/images/suspended
```

If you want to use your own images now or in the future, you'll need to be in the folder they are and use `scp` to get them there:

```bash
scp -r *.png root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:/home/root/customization/images/suspended
```

- Copy the service and timer into the correct folder:

```bash
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/scripts/random-screens/random-screens.service /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.service
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/scripts/random-screens/random-screens.timer /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.timer
```

- Save the original image, _just in case_:

```bash
yes n | cp -i /usr/share/remarkable/suspended.png /usr/share/remarkable/suspended.original.png
```

- Delete the temp folder:

```bash
rm -rf /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations
```

- Enable service and timer:

```bash
systemctl enable /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.timer
systemctl enable /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.service
```

- Run the script to initilze it:

```bash
/usr/share/remarkable/scripts/set-random-sleep.sh
```

- Put your reMarkable to sleep and you should see a customized screen.

### Automatic installation

WIP :)

### Change the frequency of the updates

You can change the frequency of the refresh by modifying the value `OnUnitActiveSec` in the file `/usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.timer` and then restarting your reMarkable.

### Troubleshooting

To do some troubleshooting, you can use the following command to check the active timers. You should see `random-screens.timer` listed there, without error.

```bash
❯ systemctl list-timers --all
NEXT                         LEFT          LAST                         PASSED      UNIT                         ACTIVATES
Tue 2023-06-20 19:44:06 UTC  2min 53s left Tue 2023-06-20 19:39:06 UTC  2min 6s ago random-screens.timer         random-screens.service
Wed 2023-06-21 19:16:32 UTC  23h left      Tue 2023-06-20 19:12:49 UTC  28min ago   systemd-tmpfiles-clean.timer systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service

2 timers listed.
```

You can also check the status of the `random-screens` service. You should see it was activated within the last 5 minutes (or your custom set frequency) and without errors.

```bash
❯ systemctl status random-screens.service
● random-screens.service - Set random images for splash screens
     Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: inactive (dead) since Tue 2023-06-20 19:43:08 UTC; 38s ago
TriggeredBy: ● random-screens.timer
    Process: 175 ExecStart=/usr/share/remarkable/scripts/set-random-screens.sh (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
   Main PID: 175 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)

Jun 20 19:43:08 reMarkable systemd[1]: Started Set random images for splash screens.
Jun 20 19:43:08 reMarkable systemd[1]: random-screens.service: Succeeded.
```

Commit message:

Update README.md for 3.18 reMarkable Software
3.18 removed the timer and script and reset the suspend image. Added instructions on how to set it back up.

Also some housekeeping with the instructions.

README.md, after:

# reMarkbly-Random
Based on [https://pages.github.com/Neurone/reMarkable](https://github.com/Neurone/reMarkable)

Customizations for reMarkable and reMarkable 2 Paper Tablet.

> [!WARNING]
> This project is **NOT** affiliated with nor endorsed by reMarkable AS. If you modify your device, official support might refuse to help you if something goes wrong. Use at your own risk.

Scripts tested and working on version `3.17.x` and `3.18.x`. May work on previous versions but I don't have access so couldn't test.

> [!NOTE]
> The `3.18` update removes the script and timer and resets the sleep screen to default. The fix is straightfoward. Put `random-screens.service`, `random-screens.timer`, and `set-random-sleep.sh` back where they belong and enable the service and timer as listed below.

## Automatically change your suspend screen every 5 minutes

After installing this script, the images in `/home/root/customization/images/suspended` are indexed, put in a random order, and every 5 minutes the next image in order is made the current suspend screen. The names of the files are not relevant.

The suspend image is loaded only when the reMarkable goes to sleep and the timer seems to only run when the reMarkable is awake. Therefore, these images do not change either (a) while sleeping or (b) necessarily after every sleep/wake cycle. I tried to find a system "on sleep" or "on wake" hook to run the script on but wasn't able to so we're sticking with the "every five minutes" concept. Still working on triggering it every sleep/wake cycle.

If you change the contents of `/home/root/customization/images/suspended` the script will detect the change and reindex the images automatically.

Create your own images! They need to be 1404 x 1872 pngs and I used 229 ppi resolution. They don't have to be grayscale to work. I found the reMarkable logos here: [https://brandfetch.com/remarkable.com](https://brandfetch.com/remarkable.com)

> [!NOTE]
> This repo comes with some default images. I did my best to research them to ensure they were not copyrighted. If you find they are or are the creator, please send a PR to this repo and I will either credit you or delete the image as you desire.

### Manual installation

- Clone this repo:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:ahnyerkeester/reMarkably-Random.git reMarkable-customizations
```

- Get the IP address and password for your reMarkable: Menu bars in the top left corner -> **Settings** -> **About** -> **Copyrights and licenses**. These are displayed at the bottom of that box.

> [!IMPORTANT]  
>Be aware that the IP address may change periodically when connecting over WiFi, don't assume it will always be the same.

- Connect to your reMarkable via USB or wake it and ensure it connects to WiFi. Copy this repo into a temp folder (change the XXXs below to the reMarabkle's IP address):

```bash
scp -r reMarkable-customizations root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:/home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations
```

- Login into your reMarkable:

```bash
❯ ssh root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX
root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX′s password:
ｒｅＭａｒｋａｂｌｅ
╺━┓┏━╸┏━┓┏━┓   ┏━┓╻ ╻┏━╸┏━┓┏━┓
┏━┛┣╸ ┣┳┛┃ ┃   ┗━┓┃ ┃┃╺┓┣━┫┣┳┛
┗━╸┗━╸╹┗╸┗━┛   ┗━┛┗━┛┗━┛╹ ╹╹┗╸
reMarkable: ~/
```

- Create dedicated folders for your scripts and images:

```bash
mkdir -p /usr/share/remarkable/scripts
mkdir -p /home/root/customization/images/suspended
```

- Copy the script into the correct folder and make it executable:

```bash
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/scripts/random-screens/set-random-screens.sh /usr/share/remarkable/scripts/
chmod +x /usr/share/remarkable/scripts/set-random-screens.sh
```

- Copy some images into the folder:

```bash
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/images/suspended/* /home/root/customization/images/suspended
```

If you want to use your own images now or in the future, you'll need to be in the folder they are and use `scp` to get them there:

```bash
scp -r *.png root@XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX:/home/root/customization/images/suspended
```

- Copy the service and timer into the correct folder:

```bash
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/scripts/random-screens/random-screens.service /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.service
cp /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations/scripts/random-screens/random-screens.timer /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.timer
```

- Save the original image, _just in case_:

```bash
yes n | cp -i /usr/share/remarkable/suspended.png /usr/share/remarkable/suspended.original.png
```

- Enable service and timer:

```bash
systemctl enable /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.timer
systemctl enable /usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.service
```

- Run the script to initilze it:

```bash
/usr/share/remarkable/scripts/set-random-sleep.sh
```

- Put your reMarkable to sleep and you should see a customized screen.

- **OPTIONAL** To free up space, you may delete the temp folder:

> [!TIP]
> As I learned with the `3.18` update, you may need these files again. You could leave the folder here or if you need to reinstall them, you can always copy them back again. 

```bash
rm -rf /home/root/temp-reMarkable-customizations
```

### Automatic installation

WIP :)

### Change the frequency of the updates

You can change the frequency of the refresh by modifying the value `OnUnitActiveSec` in the file `/usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.timer` and then restarting your reMarkable.

### Troubleshooting

To do some troubleshooting, you can use the following command to check the active timers. You should see `random-screens.timer` listed there, without error.

```bash
❯ systemctl list-timers --all
NEXT                         LEFT          LAST                         PASSED      UNIT                         ACTIVATES
Tue 2023-06-20 19:44:06 UTC  2min 53s left Tue 2023-06-20 19:39:06 UTC  2min 6s ago random-screens.timer         random-screens.service
Wed 2023-06-21 19:16:32 UTC  23h left      Tue 2023-06-20 19:12:49 UTC  28min ago   systemd-tmpfiles-clean.timer systemd-tmpfiles-clean.service

2 timers listed.
```

You can also check the status of the `random-screens` service. You should see it was activated within the last 5 minutes (or your custom set frequency) and without errors.

```bash
❯ systemctl status random-screens.service
● random-screens.service - Set random images for splash screens
     Loaded: loaded (/usr/lib/systemd/user/random-screens.service; enabled; vendor preset: disabled)
     Active: inactive (dead) since Tue 2023-06-20 19:43:08 UTC; 38s ago
TriggeredBy: ● random-screens.timer
    Process: 175 ExecStart=/usr/share/remarkable/scripts/set-random-screens.sh (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
   Main PID: 175 (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)

Jun 20 19:43:08 reMarkable systemd[1]: Started Set random images for splash screens.
Jun 20 19:43:08 reMarkable systemd[1]: random-screens.service: Succeeded.
```
